---
layout: post
title: Technical Leadership in an Agile Team?
---
<title>{{ page.title }}</title>

http://www.inc.com/alan-ying/why-product-management-is-everything.html
http://www.goodproductmanager.com/2007/09/24/product-management-vs-project-management/

It seems like product managers are the backbone of the flow of ideas through output organs (sales, customers, marketing) and into internal organs (development) to produce an output (the products). However, where is the vision? While it's good to give customers what they want and need, a product should follow a vision. Is that the product management leader's role?

Product managers, who might want to add a lot of features to satisfy customers, can be kept in check by project managers who want to keep the scope small to make sure the product is delivered in time, under budget. Could the leader of a development team be this project manager, with higher ups being also project managers? This sounds right. If both product and project managers are technical, then they'll be able to understand technical design and choices that may delay a project or reduce a feature's scope. The product manager should get with the project manager before a new project and talk about what's coming down the pipeline. The project manager could then go to his/her team and roughly estimate the scope of the whole thing and then report back to the product manager. This is how it was done at Topaz. 

However, this means the project manager doesn't switch projects once something is done. He will manage whichever project his team will work on, with developers get on and off different teams to match needs of all products. The line between project and team management gets blurred. I think the team manager would be a great project manager because of the distance between him and the metal (the real work being done)

When work is handed down by product managers and product owners, when the team of software developers is self-organized, when their manager's purpose is make sure the team works as efficiently as possible, then how does one rise through the ranks? What ranks are there to rise through? Typically, the way up is through management. There is also a way to rise through technical ranks, however, but this path is always more nebulous. 



research Fellows

leading an agile team technically can be difficult because everything is a team decision. Should one even want to lead?

What is the necessary motivation to lead? What drives us to want to lead? I crave ownership and responsibility of something. I'd like to play at a higher level. I really want our team to succeed, or maybe I should say I really want our team of teams to succeed.

How does one lead in an agile team? Could there be a hidden track to rise through? Unification of different products, synchronization between teams, re-use of common frameworks. These are all things that could be taken care of by a team of tech leads.

...

I'd like to finish on a thought. One can rise through the management levels and one can rise through the tech track. I believe there is a third way. A tech leader or with enough business savvy and a big enough professional network could switch to the management track and skip a few levels to end up as a true leader. At this level (VP?), managers work for you and product owners report to you. You drive the product. Why should this only be accessible via the management track?
