---
layout: post
title: Energy
---
<title>{{ page.title }}</title>

I've been thinking quite a bit about my career these past few months and I had the chance to meet briefly with a career coach who happens to be a high ranking manager in a big, big company. When I asked her for some career advice, I was hoping she'd help me figure out what I wanted to become as I grew as a professional. Instead, I received advice on managing my energy. To me, this piece of advice came out of left field. You see, when I normally receive counsel that goes against my needs or doesn't seem to relate to them, I tend to disregard it. However, this energy thing got me curious.

The advice was: build a list of things that give you energy and things that use up energy. Then find a way to manage that energy.

What is energy? I'm still not completely sure. I see it as a force that helps me move forward and be happy in life and feel... energized. It's a source of motivation and also a resource I can draw on when bad things happen to me. It helps me keep my calm, remain zen like and weather a storm. When I run out of energy, I risk becoming moody, irritable and not very fun to be around. When I'm full of energy, I tend to be very confident, happy, and more of a risk taker.

So here is my list.

Things that give me energy, in no particular order:

* Positive recognition
* Social interactions
* Finishing a task the right way
* Inspiring someone else
* Successfully thinking out of the box (it's harder than you think!)
* Self*discipline
* Planning
* Having a vision
* Exercising
* Eating right: veggies, grass*fed meats and healthy fats. Small portions
* Sleeping 8 to 9 hours a night
* Having a cause
* Writing code without friction
* Designing software
* Playing with new technology
* Learning interesting things
* Traveling, even if it's work related

Things that use up energy, in no particular order:

* Getting sucked into an argument
* Not knowing facts I should know
* Being unprepared
* Being disrespected
* Interacting with people I don't like
* Not having done what I should have done
* Organizing things, scheduling
* Calling people on the phone
* Figuring out what the first step to a goal is
* Procrastinating
* Junk food
* Not sleeping enough
* Running out of money
* Loud noises
* Filling out forms
* Negotiating

This list is by no means complete. I'm sure I'll have to revise it as I get to know myself better. However, one thing's for sure right now: you know me better.
