---
layout: post
title: A Hug That Changed Me
---
<title>{{ page.title }}</title>

I've been a struggling on-and-off smoker for the longest time, never smoking cigarettes for longer spans than two or three months, then taking months long pauses that could go up to almost two years before picking the habit again. Having the motivation to stop has been instrumental in the quitting process since without it all the attempts I've made have failed. I've successfully quit using the patch, the gum and cold turkey, but I've also failed to quit using these exact same methods! Smoke, quit. Smoke, quit. On, then off. On...

I was in smoking phase this past fall, up until Christmas, smoking with my co-workers and friends, up to half a pack while being out and drinking. Then I'd go home and try to not smoke for a few days, something that became increasingly hard as time went on. I'd cave and bum cigarettes which made me feel bad so I'd buy pack of smokes every now and then and give it away. It was the usual roller-coaster of cravings and regrets.

Then right after Christmas, as I was about to drive back home for a few days alone, my son ran up to me and gave me a big heartfelt hug. I was moved. I had hugged and kissed him before stepping outside with my luggage, but for some reason, he ran out for one last hug.

That night, I had planned to buy a pack of cigarettes to smoke on the drive home and during the few days I'd be alone without my wife and kids. I was looking forward to it! But that hug changed my mind. I drove past the corner store I was planning on stopping at and continued into the night without a second thought.

It's been only a little over two months since my last cigarette, but I believe this hug made me quit for life.
