h2. Sacrifice

I am fascinated by people who devote a significant amount of their life to pursuing a single goal. Olympians, UFC fighters, and anybody else engaged in some sort of high level competition or trying to achieve a very difficult goal all share the pain of having sacrificed something to reach their target. Or not... Failure happens, especially in competitive environments where there are winners and losers. You can see it on their face: the deep disappointment of having fought so hard and given up so much for nothing in return, or the exultation of having succeeded. Many people attempt these feats and compete for glory with a high risk of not achieving anything. They go for it, sometimes multiple times. What drives them? Is there a reward in failure? Is being second best okay?

I recently sat down and watched "Occupation: Fighter", a documentary that follows an MMA fighter through 8 months of training before his next fight. Throughout the film, we see how the fighter trains and how hard it is to manage to make a living, have a girlfriend and spend all that time in the gym, focusing on the next fight. At one point, his girlfriend leaves him and there is nothing he can do because he chose to focus on the fight and that is his primary goal. All else is secondary. Stop reading now if you don't want me to spoil the ending for you, but in the end, the fighter loses his fight and the chance to become a UFC fighter, which is a big deal to him and the reason he was training so hard. All that effort for nothing. What is it that made him want to start training again?

I keep wondering if there's a lesson here that I should be learning. 
