---
layout: post
title: My Journey as a Software Developer - the early years
---
<title>{{ page.title }}</title>

It all started a long time ago when my dad came back home with a present for the family: a computer! It was an IBM PC 286 with a 20 MB hard disk and 256K of memory. I was just in 6th grade back then, but I vividly remember the time I spent on that computer; more so than anything else I used to do at home. I remember playing King's Quest IV. I remember somehow getting my hands on a guide on how to finish that game. I remember DOS and the command line. I remember my dad screwing up the computer and spending a lot of time on the phone with my uncle, the computer expert in our family, trying to fix everything. I remember him editing the autoexec.bat file. I remember the after school class I got enrolled in that taught me how to program in Basic. I also remember spending a lot of time coding in Basic after that, mainly writing graphical programs. I remember renting books at the library that had pages and pages of game code I could reproduce. I marveled at the "peek" and "poke" instructions and how they made things appear differently on the screen. I reproduced, copied and had a lot of fun but I never tried to understand. I never tried to figure out why putting this or that value in a specific area of the computer's memory made characters appear differently on the screen. I think this issue would set the stage to my journey as a programmer: always chasing after people who knew and understood more than me.

I was hooked. I was still a kid, but something had clicked. I loved computers! In 7th grade I tried learning C. I borrowed books at the school library and read them on my way home every night. I would read on the subway, read on the bus, read while walking from the bus stop. But it didn't work. I couldn't understand and to be honest, I found the programming examples in the book very boring. Calculating leap years or doing financial exercises wasn't my idea of a fun time. Nonetheless, I spent the next three years hanging out in the computer lab, goofing around doing I don't know what. I'd spend a lot of time at home on my computer, playing games, learning DOS, experimenting, and code in Basic. 

In 10th grade, we started learning Pascal as school and that's when things then got a bit more serious for me. I wrote a simple game and made a valiant effort at a follow up. I also attempted to write a 3D labyrinth that a player could navigate but failed because I didn't know you should design the level as a data structure that a graphics engine would render on the screen. All the while, I started noticing that some other kids knew much more than me. Those kids were writing games involving the mouse! You could press buttons or click where you wanted your character to go! Back then, our programs weren't Windows programs. There was no event loop and no way that I knew of for the mouse to interact with the program. How did they do it?

I was also extremely self-conscious of my image. I was a geek, but not as much as these other kids. I didn't want to be seen with them. My situation wasn't great, but it wasn't bad either. I was kinda left alone. So I had to rely on other people to discover the secrets that these kids used which resulted in a bunch of us to purchase the PC Bible, a book that described everything about PCs, including how to communicate with the hardware via interrupts and registers. Unfortunately, this was too complicated for me and I wasn't really willing to put in the effort required to understand. I remember leafing through the book, disappointed that I couldn't understand it at once. I was all about instant gratification, after all. Eventually, a friend wrote a library to use the mouse and I started using it. But by then, most of the year had gone by and I still didn't fully understand how it worked, but it didn't really matter to me.

I don't remember much about the following years except that I was hanging out on BBSes and probably driving my mom crazy. If I was home, that meant I was using the phone line, which became a problem eventually when my sister became a teenager. We started fighting pretty hard for a phone monopoly. I think I mainly spent those few years being a power user. I didn't really code anymore, just going online instead and play games. I didn't take more computer classes and simply coasted on my current knowledge. I even went to college to start a major in history.

Thank God I didn't finish that major! I realized I wasn't on the right track and decided to go back to programming. There was a neat computer science program in a university not too far away that mixed up classes with paid internships and the whole program took just three and a half years to complete without any semesters off. But to make it, I'd first have to take three math classes that were prerequisites and which I'd have to take at night and during the summer. I ended up acing all three classes and headed out to a new university out of town, which also meant I didn't have to live with my parents anymore! I became very excited and motivated in the few months prior to starting my computer science degree and finally sat down and learned C. I was pleasantly surprised as to how easy it was, really! 

I have very fond memories of my time at the university but I can't pin point anything that made me a better developer there. I learned a ton of stuff. I was blown away by some classes like functional programming, compilers, operating systems, assembly, computer graphics and device drivers. I was also bored to tears by some other classes like statistics (which I developed an interest for recently. It's funny how these things happen,) distributed computing, databases and some theoretical computing classes. But most of all, I feel like college did not prepare me for the real world and thus didn't do anything for my personal growth as a programmer. To this day, I don't know how to deal with that. Can I turn my computer science degree into an edge? Should I?o

(My story continues "here, in part two":http://www.emoprog.com/2013/02/27/journey2.html.)
